hi welcome to Joey's guitar lessons
today we're going to talk about major
scales one of my favorite scales is the
C major scale we can play that on the
8th fret of your 6th string now your 6th
string is the big one ok you count from
here the small on one two three four
five six okay so you go up here you got
e yet G get a you got be get see see the
same thing is that be sharp leave it
that way if you will all right so you
got you take a middle finger each thing
is going to cover one fret okay like
this like this finger I was going to
cover the 8th fred this one all is going
to cover that the seventh fret 7 8 9 10
ok so no matter what we do we talk about
with this fingering hey you got on each
finger you know let's get kind of a sign
it's like this is like third base that's
his position he plays third base what
are you gonna do about it you can do
nothing about it okay because that's how
I'm telling you how it is so you let's
talk like this start with the middle
finger okay like this my middle fucking
finger okay put that on the see it go
like this i'm going to call the fingers
as we play okay each finger covers one
thread simple is that see
so 24 for your fingers to for 12 for 13
for 13 for 24 12 and then you could play
the for as long as you're there but it
ends it for to write any note found on
your 6th string is going to be the same
note name it's found on your first
string so you get this see let's see
let's try that again 2 for 12 for 13 for
13 for 24 12 c d e f g a b c is your
first octave right si si si te f g a b c
there's your second all right okay which
i can c d e f g a b c d e f g a b c
that's called an Ionian scale ok c d e f
g a b c d e f g a b c like i said as
long as you're in the position you can
go up as far as you can in this case I
mean first ring you just follow up to
the D that keeps within the rule of you
know playing one finger per fret so same
down here you can play the B below that
C so C
so what what are these Dorian skills
we're talking well tell you this let's
tell you a little secret okay your
tongue along you keep this seat just
between us okay so you got your C major
scale c d e f g a b c will happen to be
play a c-major scale but you just start
from the d and he go the d outfit c d e
f g a b c d etc Sarah let's say let's
forget that seat for a second this is
top from the DMV ABC plan is the C major
scale but we start for the D and ending
on the D so it's like this what I'm
gonna play two octaves d e f g a b c d
is first dr g a tea candle works well
with a d minor 7 chord you know some
people call that Dorn addi- seven scale
has some crazy shit check this out ok c
major scale ionian check it out with the
C major C major 7 chord C major 7 has
sea route e-fit g 5th be the major 7th
like this that jazzy loungy sound that's
right so Ionian could go well with that
C major 7 the mga busy then now what if
wanted to play the D minus 7 once you
get away to keep everything this
fingering for right now your middle
finger fuck you stays on the 8th fret ok
8th fret so the first finger stays in
the 73rd
you see them at night your fourth finger
stays on the tenth okay don't make me
fucking say it again there you go see
e.g be C major 7 arpeggio ok now I'm
going to check out d minus 7 arpeggio
and sure enough sure shit it's found
right in the c major scale okay check it
out see what what if we just kept going
with this concept huh what if we did it
with the e hmm later c major seven or a
c-major scale from the e and going to be
so God C major scale but we're gonna
don't play the first two minutes just
pretend it's a half deep and easy baby
so we played the C major skin the C
major scale but we fucked it we didn't
play the first Tino's bad thing good
thing who's to say but we just didn't
play we just kind of went through the
motions so we can clear that same
pattern and utilize it
guess what cool deck e minus seven so so
far we got this CB bfg ABT so we do
seven d e f g a b c d e f g a b c devi
us and what if we kept going fda bz bz g
dominant seven right yeah that's some
crazy shit ok now
that's where play in my 7k my 70-71 7 8
9 a-7 what happens if today was kind of
fucked up call you a fucked up scale and
gold but you know what it's still part
of the C major scale it's a B minor 7
flat 5 otherwise known as a half
diminished crazy shit we'll talk about
that later but right now let's just play
i C major scale from the beat of the be
easy b & e a bay
and then we end with ABC you don't get
it